# shorturl
shorturl (for lack of a brand name) is a simple URL shortener app made with Spring Boot.

The app includes a web server which produces a web page where a short URL can be entered into a form and sent to the 
server which will return a short URL that represents the longer one. There is also a very small REST API for 
manipulating short URLs.

The app is configured to use an embedded (HSQL) database for persistence. Short URLs (or slugs) are generated by 
leveraging the database's auto-increment/identity feature. The slug itself isn't stored in the DB, only the numeric 
auto-incremented ID. This ID can be converted into a slug by converting the (decimal) ID into a base 62 number.
There are two reasons why the app was designed this way: keep data size at a minimum and to make sorting records 
faster/easier. 

The constraints of the app are that the slug should consist only of alphanumeric characters and cannot exceed 
10 characters in length. Generated slugs should be as short as possible, while using all combinations. Considering this, 
there could be a maximum of 62^10 slugs.

## Getting Started

This is a maven project, so it should straightforward to import into your own workspace. Once that's done, plug away, 
or compile the app, as you desire.

As it's configured currently, compiling the app will run a web server on port 80 (to keep the short URL short)

The root page has a form that can be used to send a URL where the back end will return a generated short URL for 
it when submitted. The web server also redirects short URLs (assuming they exist and have a valid linked URL).
 Finally, there is a small API for getting and creating the short URLs as well.


### Prerequisites

Must have a Java environment/sdk installed.
